# Build From Bat

## Description
This program simplifies the creation of build scripts for C++ projects, streamlining the development process.

Leveraging the capabilities of Golang's os and filepath libraries, this project manages the discovery and manipulation of directories and files required for the build process. These functionalities enhance the efficiency of the project setup and execution, contributing to a more streamlined workflow for C++ development.

## How to install
1. Ensure the latest version of Golang is installed
    - Golang can be installed from Go's official [website](https://go.dev/doc/install)
2. Clone the repo in whichever way you please 
3. In your terminal move into buildFromBat's directory
4. Build the project using the go build command
```console
go build
```
6. Install buildFromBat using go install
```console
go install
```
7. The program is now successfully installed, the buildFromBat command should now be able to be used anywhere on your system!
    - If the program doesn't run from the buildFromBat command ensure that the go/bin folder is in your systems PATH

## How to use
- **Run from Project's Root Directory:** Execute this tool from the highest-level directory of your project, the root directory.
- **Prepare 'project.txt':** Ensure there's a 'project.json' file within the directory. This file should detail essential information like compiler flags, required libraries, and other configurations necessary for your project's successful build.
  - *Note*: If 'project.json' isn't found in the execution directory, the tool will search for it in the '~/.config/buildFromBat' directory.
- **Automated Build Setup:** BuildFromBat simplifies the process by creating a 'build' folder in the current directory if it doesn't exist already. It generates a .bat/.sh file within this folder. The resulting .bat/.sh file compiles the executable and places it into the 'build' folder for convenient access.

## Arguments
The program requires a single argument: the desired name for the output file.

```console
buildFromBat [output_file_name]
```

Replace `[output_file_name]` with your preferred name for the output file. This argument specifies the filename of the resulting executable generated by the build process.

## `project.json` format
BuildFromBat uses the json provided by the user to fill out the info necessary to compile the project 

Every key except Compiler and Extension accept multiple occurrences in the `project.txt` file:

- **compiler:** Specifies the compiler invoked by the build process. Example: compiler=g++
- **flag:** Indicates additional compiler flags required for the build. Example: flag=Wall
- **includeDirectory:** Denotes the project's include directories. Example: includeDirectory=C:\path\to\folder\include
- **libraryDirectory:** Specifies directories containing project libraries. Example: libraryDirectory=C:\path\to\folder\lib
- **library:** Identifies libraries utilized by the compiler during the build. Example: library=Gl
- **exclude:** Identifies directories or files that should not be added to the build file. Example: exclude=build
- **extension:** If this value is not set the program will choose the correct extension based on the user's operating system, however not all operating systems are currently supported.

## Compiler Compatibility
BuildFromBat has primarily been tested and designed for use with the `g++` compiler. While it offers flexibility and ease of use specifically tailored for `g++`, it may not seamlessly function with other compilers out of the box.

## TODO
  I plan to continuously improve and expand this project to improve my skills as a programmer. Planned updates include:

  - **Custom Include Paths:** Upcoming updates will introduce the capability to include specific system paths, enabling their inclusion and search within the build file.
    - **Intended Use:** This feature aims to facilitate the inclusion of directories within your primary project. It will assist in scenarios where separate executable compilations within the project require files from sibling directories for compilation.

  - **Extended Compiler Support:** Future updates will introduce support for additional compilers like `cl`, `gcc`, `clang`, and various other popular compilers, enhancing the tool's compatibility and versatility.

  - **Expansion to Other Languages:** Long-term objectives involve extending support beyond C++ to encompass other compiled programming languages such as `C` and `Java`.
